Infosys Interview Guide


1 . Core CS Subjects
For all of three u have to prepare core cs subjects like CN , OS , DBMS , Computer Architecture Basics, OOPS , but how?

##Resources for OOPS (c++ , Python , Java )

This is very common they ask u on the basis of language u written in Resume.
You can visit Interviewbit here you can find different interview question topic bise



##Resources for DBMS / MySQL

This subject is very important they ask anything either very easy or in very deep so prepare well and especially SES and PP guys u have to be more careful.

You can visit Interviewbit here you can find different interview question topic bise
(Query questions , Very important)
If u have time then u can watch main topics of DBMS Sanchit_Jain_sir 1.4k



##Resources for OS

This subject is also important they ask very few questions (rarely to SE) but high chances for PP.

Mutex VS Semaphores , Deadlock (Most common)
You can visit Interviewbit here you can find different interview question topic bise


##Resources for CN

Mostly they ask few questions for PP role .

Ipv4 VS Ipv6 , TCP/IP , UDP (Most common)
You can visit Interviewbit here you can find different interview question topic bise




##Resources for Computer Architecture

They ask very few questions for PP role (rarely for SE and SES )

What are Flip-Flops?(Most common, may be asked for all)
Revise Cache memory , pipelining etc.
You can visit Interviewbit here you can find different interview question topic bise



##Resources for Software Engineering

They ask at least a question from this.

All software development models and cycles.
You can visit Interviewbit here you can find different interview question topic bise



2 . Coding / DSA
For SE

For SE they ask very common questions.

Prime Number , GCD
Reverse a Number
Reverse a string
Bubble Sorting
Reverse array
Fibonacci
Factorial of a number , and so on ( basically I gave u some rough idea)
For SES

For SES they ask medium questions (included above too)

Prime Number (Sieve)
Pattern Printing
Fibonacci (without recursion)
Factorial (Without recursion)
Max contiguous subarray sum
Merge, Quick and Insertion Sort
BFS / DFS
For PP

For PP they ask some advanced question too (included above too)

Revise all traversals ( Zigzag, In, pre , post , level etc)
Sum of all subarray of an array
Reverse linked list
Find whether a loop in linked list
Find whether there is a cycle in graph
Implement AVL tree.
Coin change problem.
Heap Sort
Graph coloring Problem
shortest path in graph ( if u don’t know implementation just tell them thoery , Prim’s and Kruskal)
Insertion and deletion in BST ( U have to write code)
All views of the Binary search tree.
Knapsack Problem
Water Trapping Problem
Inorder successor of given node in BST
Next smallest Palindrome
Array sum using recursion
Matrix rotation 90 degree.
I gave u some basic idea and some questions they asked the previous year . (google all above)

For more search questions with Infosys tag at gfg.

 [ Info interview ques.]
 [GFG - Infosys experience and Questions]
 [ Leetcode Top Interrview Questions]
 
 
3 . Resume / Projects / HR questions
Common Tips for all -

Prepare your project very well, If u do not have a project I would suggest preparing a small project in this time duration remaining.
Prepare your resume, go through it, and write only those things which u really know.
Prepare all basics HR questions, like , why we hire you? blah blah.
If u r disagree at some point be polite, and be confident, don’t be arrogant, sad, overexcited … a smiley face is sufficient.
Hope my above article helps u to clear the interview process (SE , SES , PP ) . :slight_smile:
Till then Practice fking hard, Because -

 When u r not practicing someone else is ,
 and the day you meet them u will lose.
PS : If someone read who also part of previous hack with infy can share their experience below in the comments. If u have any doubt let me know, If i m able to solve I will surely help :slight_smile:



