1. Define Cloud Computing?
Ans) Cloud computing is a method for delivering information technology (IT) services in which resources are retrieved from the Internet through web-based tools and applications, as opposed to a direct connection to a server.


2. What are the uses of Cloud Computing?
Ans) Uses of cloud computing:
+ Create new apps and services.
+ Store, back up, and recover data.
+ Host websites and blogs.
+ Stream audio and video.


3. What are some of the top companies that provide cloud services?
Ans) Top companies that provide cloud services:
+ Amazon Web Service (AWS)
+ Microsoft Azure.
+ Google Cloud Platform.
+ Adobe.
+ VMware.


4. Define Artificial Intelligence?
Ans) AI is the simulation of human intelligence processes by machines, especially computer systems. These processes include learning (the acquisition of information and rules for using the information), reasoning (using the rules to reach approximate or definite conclusions), and self-correction.


5. Define Machine Learning?
Ans) Machine learning is a method of data analysis that automates analytical model building. It is a branch of artificial intelligence based on the idea that systems can learn from data, identify patterns and make decisions with minimal human intervention.


6. List down the usage of AI and ML?
Ans) Both Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning need a large amount of data to make the analysis. Here comes the concept of Big Data; which helps us to store and retrieve a large amount of data.


7. Define Deep Learning
Ans) Deep Learning is an artificial intelligence function that imitates the workings of the human brain in processing data and creating patterns for use in decision making.


8. What are the characteristics of Deep Learning?
Ans) Deep learning is a subset of machine learning in Artificial Intelligence (AI) that has networks capable of learning unsupervised from data that is unstructured or unlabeled.
Also known as Deep Neural Learning or Deep Neural Network.

 
9. List down the applications of Deep Learning?
Ans) pplications:
+ Automatic speech recognition
+ Image recognition
+ Customer relationship management
+ Mobile advertising
+ Image restoration


10. Define Big Data Analytics? 
Ans) 'Big Data is data but with a huge size. Huge in size and yet growing exponentially with time. In short, such data is so large and complex that none of the traditional data management tools are able to store it or process it efficiently.
 

11. List down the characteristics of Big Data?
Ans) Huge in size and yet growing exponentially with time.
None of the traditional data management tools are able to store it or process it efficiently.


12. Define Cyber Security?
Ans) Cybersecurity comprises technologies, processes, and controls that are designed to protect systems, networks, and data from cyber-attacks.
Effective cybersecurity reduces the risk of cyberattacks.


13. What are the types of Cyberattacks?
Ans) types of Cyberattacks:
+ Malware attack
+ Spoofing                
+ Phishing
 

14. Define IoT?
Ans) The Internet of Things (IoT) is the network of physical devices, vehicles, home appliances, and other items embedded with electronics, software, sensors, actuators, and connectivity which enables these things to connect and exchange data.

 

15. List down the applications of IoT?
Ans) Applications: 
+ Smart homes
+ Wearable (Smartwatches)
+ Manufacturing Industries’
+ Transportation
+ Agriculture
+ Retail Industries
+ Healthcare etc.


16. Define AR?
Ans) Augmented Reality (AR) is a general term for a collection of technologies used to blend computer-generated information with the viewer’s natural senses.

 
17. List down the characteristics of AR?
Ans) Augmented Reality (AR) refers to deploying virtual images over real-world objects. The overlay is executed simultaneously with the input received from a camera or another input device like smart glasses.

 
18. List down the applications of AR?
Ans) Applications: 
+ Games
+ Movies
+ Medical
+ Advertising Media
+ Shopping
+ Interior Design etc.


19. What is the definition of Digital technology?
Ans) Digital technology includes all types of electronic equipment and applications that use information in the form of numeric code.
Example: Personal computers, calculators, automobiles, etc.

