Networking:-  Group of Networks used to share resources by common communication     protocols over digital connections.

Why we use networking?
-For sharing of resources
-For better communication
-For better connectivity
-To bring people together

Types of networks:-
	PAN - Personal area network
	LAN- Local area network
	WLAN- Wireless Local area network
	MAN:- Metropolitan area network
	WAN:- Wide area network
	SAN:- Storage area network

Internetworking Devices-

Hub :- It is used to extends the span of single LAN.
Bridge/Layer-2 switch :- It connects two or more LAN together. It works at data link layer.
Router/Layer-3 switch:- It connects an combination of WAN and LAN. It works at network layer.

Flow of data over Networks:-
	Data flow over networks by two ways:-
	1.Circuit Switching
		Data flows over fixed path between two hosts.
		Path follows fixed sequence.
		Ex:- Telephone, Circuit between battery and bulb in electrics.
	
	2.Packet Switching
		Data flows over any path (if it gets nodes)
		Path isn’t predefined.
		Ex:- Modern Mobile Networks.

Virtual Circuits-

	Similar concept to circuit switching.
	Route is established before paket transmission starts.
	All packets(data) follow same path.
	Path aren’t dedicated.
	
	Conditions for virtual circuits :-
	
		Route is establishment before transmission starts.
		Packet forwarding is based on store and forward concept.
		Virtual circuit number carried on the packet.
		Each intermediate nodes(router) maintain a table which is created during route establishment and used for packet forwarding.
		No dynamic routing decision taken by intermediate nodes. 
	
	Datagram-
	
		No route is established before packet transmission.
		Each packet transmission is independent.
		Doesn’t maintain any history.

		Conditions for Datagrams :-
			Each node take routing decisions individually and each have a routing table.
			Each packet has source and destination address.


		Drawbacks :-
			Packets may be delivered at wrong address.
			If a node crashes, all of its queued packets are lost
			Duplicates may be generated.

	Delays in transmission in packets :-

		There is three types of delays in transmission of packets between sender and receiver:-
		Propagation delay :- Time taken by the data signal to propagate from one node to another.
		Transmission delay:- Time taken by the  packet to send out from the transmitter.
		Processing delay :- Time taken by the node to process the packet.

	
